Austal, which is based in Henderson, Western Australia, is one of the country's largest shipbuilders; it has built vessels for the U. S.  Navy. | O
The company, which is listed on Australia's ASX stock exchange, announced the breach late Thursday. | O 
The announcement came just a day after a security researcher in France posted screenshots on Twitter of the purported stolen data. | Databreach
Austal says the material is neither sensitive nor classified and that it has taken steps to secure its data systems. | O 
"The data breach has had no impact on Austal's ongoing operations," the company says. | Databreach  
Austal's business in the United States is unaffected by this issue, as the computer systems are not linked. | O 
A spokesman for Austal contacted on Friday says he couldn't offer further information on the incident. | O 
The breach exposed ship design drawings that are distributed to customers, fabrication subcontractors and suppliers, Austal says. | Databreach 
It also exposed "some staff email addresses and mobile phone numbers." | Databreach
Those individuals have been informed as well as a "small number" of other stakeholders directly impacted by the breach, the company reports. | O
Austal has contacted the Australian Cyber Security Center and the Australian Federal Police. | O 
The Office of the Australian Information Commissioner, which enforces the country's data protection regulations "will be involved as required," Austal says. | O 
Companies are increasingly being subjected to ransoms by hackers after their networks have been breached. | Ransom 
Ransoms put companies in tough positions: risk public exposure of potentially embarrassing data, or risk paying a ransom and still face a chance the data could be released anyway. | Ransom
Security experts and law enforcement generally advise against paying ransoms, even after incidents of file-encrypting malware. | Ransom 
But some companies have viewed the situation as either a cost of doing business or a shorter route to recovery. | O
Late last month in the U. | S, the city of West Haven, Connecticut, paid $2,000 to unlock 23 servers that had been infected with ransomware (see: Connecticut City Pays Ransom After Crypto-Locking Attack). | Ransom
The city's attorney, Lee Tiernan, was quoted by the Associated Press as saying "research showed it was the best course of action." | O
If the city didn't have a backup file, it may have had little choice. | O 
