Millions of mobile phones and laptops potentially exposed to attack leveraging baseband zero-days | O
The researcher Ralf-Phillip Weinmann, managing director at security firm Comsecuris, has disclosed a zero-day baseband vulnerability affecting Huawei smartphones, laptop WWAN modules, and IoT components. | DiscoverVulnerability
Baseband is firmware used on smartphones to connect to cellular networks, to make voice calls, and transmit data. | O
An attacker can exploit baseband flaws to eavesdrop mobile communications, take over the device making calls and sending SMS messages to premium numbers or to exfiltrate data. | AttackDatabreach
The expert revealed the flaw this week at the Infiltrate Conference, the vulnerability could be exploited by attackers to execute a memory-corruption attack against affected devices over the air. | DiscoverVulnerability
Fortunately, the attack is quite difficult to conduct. | O
The baseband vulnerability resides in the HiSilicon Balong integrated 4G LTE modems. | DiscoverVulnerability
The Balong application processor is called Kirin, it is produced by the Hisilicon Technologies, a subsidiary of Huawei Technologies. | O
The affected firmware is present in several Huawei Honor smartphones, including the P10, Huawei Mate 9, Honor 9, 7, 5c and 6. | O
Weinmann believes that millions of Honor smartphones could be exposed to the to attack. | O
Weinmann presented multiple baseband vulnerabilities found in the Kirin application processor. | DiscoverVulnerability
The expert also revealed that many laptops produced by IT vendors leverage the HiSilicon Balong integrated modem, such as a number IoT devices. | O
“This baseband is much easier to exploit than other basebands. | Why? I’m not sure if this was intentional, but the vendor actually published the source code for the baseband which is unusual,” Weinmann said. | O
“Also, the malleability of this baseband implantation doesn’t just make it good for device experimenting, but also network testing.” | O
Weinmann speculates HiSilicon may have wrong released the Kirin source code as part of a developer tar archive associated with the Huawei H60 Linux kernel data. | O
Weinmann demonstrated several attack scenarios against mobile phones. | O
A first attack scenario presented by the researcher involves setting up a bogus base station using open-source software called OpenLTE that is used by an attacker to simulate a network operator. | O
The attacker can send specially crafted packets over the air that trigger a stack buffer overflow in the LTE stack causing the phone crashing. | O 
Once the phone rebooted an attacker can gain persistence installing a rootkit. | O
In a second attack scenario, the attacker with a physical access to the phone and private key pair data would install malicious tools on the firmware. | O
“It requires key material that is stored both by the carrier and on the SIM card in order to pass the mutual authentication between the phone and the network. | O
Without this key material, a base station cannot pose as a legit network towards the device.” | O
Weinmann used for its test his own VxWorks build environment using an evaluation version of VxWorks 7.0 that shipped with Intel Galileo several years ago. | O
The expert explained that the existence of a Lua scripting interpreter running in the baseband gives him further offensive options. | O
Weinmann did not disclose the technical details to avoid threat actors in the wild will abuse his technology. | O
“I have chosen to only disclose lower-severity findings for now. Higher severity findings are in the pipeline.” Weinmann said. | O
