INTERNET GIANTS DUPED Google and Facebook lose ‘£77million after falling for phishing scam sending cash to Lithuanian conman’| AttackPhishing
Evaldas Rimasauskas, 49 who allegedly conned two of the world's biggest companies was arrested on fraud charges. | AttackPhishing
GOOGLE and Facebook have admitted they were conned out of an alleged $100million (£77million) in a phishing scam. | AttackPhishing
The two world's biggest companies fell victim after a Lithuanian man allegedly tricked employees into wiring over the money to bank accounts that he controlled, Fortune reported on Thursday. | AttackPhishing
Evaldas Rimasauskas, 48, is accused of posing as an Asia-based manufacturer and deceived the internet giants from around 2013 until 2015. | AttackPhishing
He was arrested earlier this month in Lithuania at the request of US authorities. | O
The conman is said to have forged email addresses, invoices and corporate stamps to impersonate Quanta and trick them into paying for computer supplies. | AttackPhishing
Rimasauskas, who is awaiting extradition proceedings, has denied the allegations. | O
The US Department of Justice (DOJ) said last month: "Fraudulent phishing emails were sent to employees and agents of the victim companies, which regularly conducted multi-million-dollar transactions with [the Asian] company." | AttackPhishing
Both Facebook and Google have confirmed the fraud and said that they had been able to recoup funds. | O
But they didn't reveal how much money it had transferred and recouped. | O
A Google spokeswoman said: "We detected this fraud against our vendor management team and promptly alerted the authorities." | O
"We recouped the funds and we’re pleased this matter is resolved." | O
A spokeswoman for Facebook added: "Facebook recovered the bulk of the funds shortly after the incident and has been cooperating with law enforcement in its investigation." | O
Security experts said the recent cyber attack highlighted how sophisticated phishing scams are being used to fool even two of the biggest tech companies. | AttackPhishing
