 Govt. Cybersecurity Contractor Hit in W-2 Phishing Scam   
Just a friendly reminder that phishing scams which spoof the boss and request W-2 tax data on employees are intensifying as tax time nears. | AttackPhishing
The latest victim shows that even cybersecurity experts can fall prey to these increasingly sophisticated attacks. | O
On Thursday, March 16, the CEO of Defense Point Security, LLC — a Virginia company that bills itself as “the choice provider of cyber security services to the federal government” — told all employees that their W-2 tax data was handed directly to fraudsters after someone inside the company got caught in a phisher’s net. | AttackDatabreach
Alexandria, Va.-based Defense Point Security (recently acquired by management consulting giant Accenture) informed current and former employees this week via email that all of the data from their annual W-2 tax forms — including name, Social Security Number, address, compensation, tax withholding amounts — were snared by a targeted spear phishing email. | AttackDatabreach
“I want to alert you that a Defense Point Security (DPS) team member was the victim of a targeted spear phishing email that resulted in the external release of IRS W-2 Forms for individuals who DPS employed in 2016,” Defense Point CEO George McKenzie wrote in the email alert to employees. | AttackDatabreach 
“Unfortunately, your W-2 was among those released outside of DPS.” | O
W-2 scams start with spear phishing emails usually directed at finance and HR personnel. | AttackPhishing 
The scam emails will spoof a request from the organization’s CEO (or someone similarly high up in the organization) and request all employee W-2 forms. | AttackPhishing
Defense Point did not return calls or emails seeking comment. | O 
An Accenture spokesperson issued the following brief statement: “Data protection and our employees are top priorities.” | O  
Our leadership and security team are providing support to all impacted employees.” | O
Fraudsters who perpetrate tax refund fraud prize W-2 information because it contains virtually all of the data one would need to fraudulently file someone’s taxes and request a large refund in their name. | O 
Scammers in tax years past also have massively phished online payroll management account credentials used by corporate HR professionals. | AttackPhishing 
This year, they are going after people who run tax preparation firms, and W-2’s are now being openly sold in underground cybercrime stores. | O
Tax refund fraud affects hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of U.S. citizens annually. | O 
Victims usually first learn of the crime after having their returns rejected because scammers beat them to it. | O 
Even those who are not required to file a return can be victims of refund fraud, as can those who are not actually due a refund from the IRS. | O
