Google Addressed That Scary Gmail Phishing Scam — Here's What To Look Out For | AttackPhishing
Google has come up with a fix for the phishing scam that affected users. | PatchVulnerability, AttackPhishing
A Chrome browser update, which has been rolling out since February, now issues a warning when you've landed on an page with the scam. | PatchVulnerability
In your browser address bar, look out for "not secure" to the left of the address. | O
Fortune reports that in the future, Google will present this warning and indicate unprotected sites more aggressively with a red triangle. | O
According to Satnam Narang, Senior Security Response Manager at Norton by Symantec, here's how the Gmail phishing scam works: You'll see an email in your inbox from one of your contacts who has already been hacked. | AttackPhishing
The email looks like it contains an attachment. | O
But if you look closely, as this Twitter user did, you'll notice that the image preview for the attachment looks slightly fuzzy. | O
This is because there isn't actually an attachment, just an image designed to look like one. | AttackPhishing
If you click on the image you'll be directed to a page that looks like the standard Google sign-in page. | O
If you log-in there, the damage is done: The hacker can read and download all of your emails and could also access accounts elsewhere. | AttackDatabreach
In the past, you might have recognized a scam by the language in the email. | O 
But Narang says that there are reports that these hackers are sending emails that look realistic. | AttackPhishing 
In one school district, for example, team members received what looked like a copy of a practice schedule. | AttackPhishing
Still, there are things you can look out for to spot a fake. | O
"The best way to identify this attack is to look at the address bar. | O  
In this case, look for the words 'data:/text/html' at the beginning of the URL," Narang says. | O
"If you see this, close the browser tab and alert your friend that their account has been compromised." | AttackDatabreach
Narang also recommends setting up two-step verification for your Gmail account (find out how to do so here). | O
And follow these rules for boosting your password strength. | O
In a statement about the attack, a Google spokesperson said, "“We're aware of this issue and continue to strengthen our defenses against it. | O
We help protect users from phishing attacks in a variety of ways, including: machine learning based detection of phishing messages, Safe Browsing warnings that notify users of dangerous links in emails and browsers, preventing suspicious account sign-ins, and more." | AttackPhishing
Users can also activate two-step verification for additional account protection.” | O
Above all, think twice before clicking on something. | O
We're starting to see more sophisticated scams, so being vigilant will only help you in the long-run. | O

