 Hospital Pays $55K Ransomware Demand Despite Having Backups  
An Indiana hospital paid a ransom of $55,000 to get rid of ransomware that had infected its systems and was hindering operations last week. | AttackRansom
The infection took root last week, on Thursday, January 11, when attackers breached the network of Hancock Health, a regional hospital in the city of Greenfield, Indiana. | O
Attackers deployed the SamSam ransomware, which encrypted files and renamed them with the phrase "I’m sorry", according to a local newspaper who broke the news last week. | O
Hospital operations were affected right away. | O
 IT staff intervened and took down the entire network, asking employees to shut down all computers to avoid the ransomware from spreading to other PCs. | O
By Friday, the next day, the hospital was littered with posters asking employees to shut down any computer until the incident was resolved. | O
While some news sites reported that the hospital shut down operations, medical and management staff continued their work, but with pen and paper instead of computers. | O
 Patients continued to receive care at the hospital's premise. | O
Hospital had backups but decides to pay ransom demand. | AttackRansom
The hospital said that despite having backups it opted to pay the ransom demand of 4 Bitcoin, which was worth around $55,000 at the time the hospital paid the sum, on Saturday morning. | AttackRansom
Hospital management told local press that restoring from backups was not a solution as it would have taken days and maybe even weeks to have all systems up and running. | O
 Hence, they decided paying the ransom was quicker. | AttackRansom
By Monday, all systems were up and running, and the hospital released a short statement on its site admitting to the incident, but with very few other details. | O
While the hospital has not confirmed the typical SamSam attack scenario, they did say the infection was not the case of an employee opening a malware-infected email. | O
The FBI has long asked companies and individuals affected by ransomware to report any infections via the IC3 portal so the Bureau can get a better grasp of the threat and have the legal reasons to go after such groups. | AttackRansom
An Indiana hospital paid a ransom of $55,000 to get rid of ransomware that had infected its systems and was hindering operations last week. | AttackRansom