 Hackers held patient data ransom, so Indiana hospital system paid $50,000  
INDIANAPOLIS — An Indiana hospital said it paid a $50,000 ransom to hackers who hijacked patient data. | AttackRansom
The ransomware attack accessed the computers of Hancock Health in Greenfield through an outside vendor's account Thursday. | AttackRansom
 It quickly infected the system by locking out data and changing the names of more than 1,400 files to "I'm sorry." | AttackRansom
The virus demanded four bitcoins in exchange for unlocking the data, which included patient medical records and company emails. | O
 The hospital paid the amount, about $50,000 at the time, early Saturday morning, said Rob Matt, senior vice president and chief strategy officer. | AttackRansom
"It wasn't an easy decision," Matt said. | O
 "When you weigh the cost of delivering high-quality care versus not paying and bearing the consequences of a new system." | O
The data started unlocking soon after the money was transferred, Matt said. | O
"The amount of the ransom was reasonable in respect to the cost of continuing down time and not being able to care for patients," Matt said. | AttackRansom
Hancock Health includes about two dozen health care facilities, including Hancock Regional Hospital in Greenfield, about 15 miles east of Indianapolis. | O
The health system said in a news release that patient data was not compromised. | AttackDatabreach
 Life support and other critical hospital services were not affected, and patient safety was never at risk. | O
Ransomware is a growing digital extortion technique that affected tens of thousands of Americans in 2016, USA TODAY reported. | O
 Criminals use various phishing methods through emails or bogus links to infect victims with malicious software. | AttackPhishing
The virus infects the computer network by encrypting files or locking down the entire system. | O
 Victims log on and receive a message telling them the files have been hijacked and to get the files back they will have to pay. | AttackRansom
Hospitals are a frequent target of these attacks. | O
 In May, a ransomware virus affected more than 200,000 victims in 150 countries, including more than 20% of hospitals in the United Kingdom. | O
 That attack was later traced to North Korea. | O
Hancock Health said it worked with the FBI and hired an Indianapolis cybersecurity expert for advice on how to respond to the attack. | O
The systems were back Monday after paying the ransom. | AttackRansom
“We were in a very precarious situation at the time of the attack," Hancock Health CEO Steve Long said in a statement. | O
"With the ice and snowstorm at hand, coupled with the one of the worst flu seasons in memory, we wanted to recover our systems in the quickest way possible." | O
Hospital officials could have retrieved back up files, but Long said they feared restoring the hijacked data would take too long. | O
"We made the deliberate decision,” Long said, "to pay the ransom to expedite our return to full operations." | AttackRansom