 Locky Returns via Spam and Dropbox-Themed Phishing Attacks  
A new attack campaign has been flinging phishing messages as well as ransomware-laced spam emails at potential victims in massive quantities. | AttackPhishing
The attack campaign involves crypto-locking Locky ransomware. | O
"Beware. Don't fall for this. | O
 Locky is horrid," says Alan Woodward, a computer science professor at the University of Surrey. | O
The campaign began Monday, according to cloud-based cybersecurity provider AppRiver, which counted more than 23 million related spam emails having been sent in less than 24 hours. | AttackPhishing
 That makes it "one of the largest malware campaigns that we have seen in the latter half of 2017," says Troy Gill, manager of security research for AppRiver, in a blog post. | O
Finnish security firm F-Secure says that the majority of the spam messages that its systems are currently blocking relate to Locky. | O
 It notes that some spam contains links to infected sites, while other messages carry malicious attachments. | O
If a system becomes infected with this strain of Locky, crypto-locked files will have the extension ". | O
lukitus" added, which is a Finnish word variously translated by native speakers as "locking" or "locked," according to F-Secure. | O
The Lukitus variant of Locky was first spotted last month. | O
 Rommel Joven, a malware researcher with security firm Fortinet, warned that it was being distributed via email attachments as part of a massive spam campaign being run by the one of the world's biggest botnets, Necurs, which has historically been the principle outlet for Locky attacks. | O
Spam Can Carry Locky Attachments. | O
AppRiver says emails related to the new Locky campaign have featured a variety of subject lines, including these words: documents, images, photo, pictures, please print, scans. | O
"Each message comes with a zip attachment that contains a Visual Basic Script (VBS) file that is nested inside a secondary zip file," Gill says. | O
"Once clicked, [the] VBS file initiates a downloader that reaches out to greatesthits[dot]mygoldmusic[dotcom] to pull down the latest Locky ransomware. | O
 Locky goes to work encrypting all the files on the target system and appending [.]lukitus to the users now-encrypted files. | O
The ransomware then drops a ransom note on the victim's desktop. | AttackRansom
"The victim is instructed to install the Tor browser and is provided an onion (aka Darkweb) site to process payment of 0.5 bitcoins" - currently worth $2,400 - Gill says. | AttackRansom
"Once the ransom payment is made the attackers promise a redirect to the decryption service." | AttackRansom
As of Friday, meanwhile, Xavier Mertens, a freelance security consultant and SANS Institute Internet Storm Center contributor based in Belgium, says he's seeing a new wave of malicious spam that uses emails that pretend to carry voice messages. | AttackPhishing
Internet Storm Center reports that some malicious messages tied to Locky are showing fake alerts stating that the HoeflerText font needs to be installed. | O
Not all of the Locky spam emails arrive with malicious attachments; some are designed as phishing attacks that redirect users to real-looking but malicious sites. | AttackPhishing
Peter Kruse, an e-crime specialist at CSIS Security Group in Denmark, says some emails related to this ransomware campaign are skinned to look like they've come from Dropbox. | AttackPhishing
 Some will attempt to trick recipients into clicking on a "verify your email" link. | AttackPhishing
 Kruse says the attacks are being launched by the group tied to the Affid=3 [aka affiliate ID=3] version of Locky. | O
 If victims click on the link, they're redirected to one of a number of websites. | O
Clicking on a link can result in a zipped attack file being downloaded, per the VBS attack detailed above, according to security researcher JamesWT, a former member of the anti-malware research group called Malware Hunter Team. | O
Alternately, clicking on the link may result in the site attempting to execute a malicious JavaScript file that functions as a dropper, meaning it then attempts to download a payload file. | O
In some attacks, this payload file is Locky. | O
But JamesWT tells ISMG that malware from the campaign that he uploaded to malware-checking service VirusTotal was identified as being Shade ransomware. | O