Microsoft patches RDP vulnerability. Update now! | PatchVulnerability
As part of its monthly Update Tuesday, Microsoft announced this week that they’ve released a preliminary fix for a vulnerability rated important, and present in all supported versions of Windows in circulation (basically any client or server version of Windows from 2008 onward). | PatchVulnerability, DiscoverVulnerability
The flaw affects the Credential Security Support Provider (CredSSP) protocol, which is used in all instances of Windows’ Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) and Remote Management (WinRM). | DiscoverVulnerability
The vulnerability, CVE-2018-0886, could allow remote code execution via a physical or wifi-based Man-in-the-Middle attack, where the attacker steals session data, including local user credentials, during the CredSSP authentication process. | DiscoverVulnerability, AttackDatabreach
Although Microsoft says the bug has not yet been exploited, it could cause serious damage if left unpatched. | DiscoverVulnerability
RDP is widely used in enterprise environments and an attacker who successfully exploits this bug could use it to gain a foothold from which to pivot and escalate. | DiscoverVulnerability
It’s also popular with small businesses who outsource their IT administration and, needless to say, an attacker with an admin account has all the aces. | DiscoverVulnerability
Security researchers at Preempt say they discovered and disclosed this vulnerability to Microsoft last August, and Microsoft has been working since then to create the patch released this week. | PatchVulnerability, DiscoverVulnerability
Now it’s out there, it’s a race against time to make sure you aren’t an easy target for an attacker who wants to try and kick the tires on this vulnerability. | O
Obviously, patch as soon as possible and please follow Microsoft’s guidance carefully: | O
Mitigation consists of installing the update on all eligible client and server operating systems and then using included Group Policy settings or registry-based equivalents to manage the setting options on the client and server computers. | O
We recommend that administrators apply the policy and set it to “Force updated clients” or “Mitigated” on client and server computers as soon as possible. | O
These changes will require a reboot of the affected systems. | O
Pay close attention to Group Policy or registry settings pairs that result in “Blocked” interactions between clients and servers in the compatibility table later in this article. | O
Both the “Force updated clients” and “Mitigated” settings prevent RDP clients from falling back to insecure versions of CredSSP. | O
The “Force updated clients” setting will not allow services that use CredSSP to accept unpatched clients but “Mitigated” will. | O


