Hackers Target Your Mobile Bank App; You Can Fight Back | O
By 2021, millions more of us will be doing our banking on smartphones and tablets, researchers say. | O
The number of mobile bank app users is expected to leap 53% in the next four years. | O
So far, mobile banking has been a pretty secure experience. | O
Mobile app breaches represented less than 3% of all computer records hacked last year, according to the Identity Theft Research Center, a San Diego tracking firm. | O
But don’t get cozy. | O
A veritable flood of consumers is heading for mobile, according to Juniper Research. | O
It predicts over 3 billion people around the world will be banking on mobile by 2021 — quite a lure for hackers who target financial apps. | O
That means more people are likely to fall prey, so bank customers will need to be ready to protect their devices and their bank accounts. | O
Criminals try to access mobile apps in a number of ways. | O

When a mobile app communicates with a financial institution’s server over the internet, the app verifies the bank’s or credit union’s identity by checking its server certificate. | O
With a man-in-the-middle attack, fraudsters will try to “listen in” on this network traffic, perhaps by accessing the same public Wi-Fi network as the mobile user, and attempt to send a fake bank server certificate to the mobile app. | AttackPhishing
If the app accepts the fake certificate, it could let the hacker receive the user’s personal information. | O

When installed on a mobile device, key logger programs secretly record a person’s actions as he or she uses the device. | O
With a banking app, the malicious software could log your account names, numbers and passwords and send them to a hacker. | O

It’s been around for years, but this tried and true hack is still popular with criminals, says Doug Johnson, senior vice president of payments and cybersecurity policy at the American Bankers Association. | O
It occurs when a fraudster pretends to be a legitimate financial institution that asks a mobile user to submit private bank information. | AttackPhishing
Many phishing attempts bypass mobile apps completely. | AttackPhishing
A hacker could send emails telling people their account is locked and asking them to reply to the message with their account username and password. | AttackPhishing
But the account isn’t locked, and the information a person sends would go to the criminal, not the bank. | O
