Vulnerability Affects All OpenSSH Versions Released in the Past Two Decades | O
A vulnerability affects all versions of the OpenSSH client released in the past two decades, ever since the application was released in 1999. | DiscoverVulnerability
The security bug received a patch this week, but since the OpenSSH client is embedded in a multitude of software applications and hardware devices, it will take months, if not years, for the fix to trickle down to all affected systems. | PatchVulnerability
This particular bug was analyzed last week by security researchers from Qualys who spotted a commit in OpenBSD's OpenSSH source code for a bug report submitted by Darek Tytko from securitum.pl. | DiscoverVulnerability
After analyzing the commit, researchers realized that the code inadvertently fixed a security bug lying dormant in the OpenSSH client since its creation. | O
This bug allows a remote attacker to guess the usernames registered on an OpenSSH server. | PatchVulnerability
Since OpenSSH is used with a bunch of technologies ranging from cloud hosting servers to mandate IoT equipment, billions of devices are affected. | O
As researchers explain, the attack scenario relies on an attacker trying to authenticate on an OpenSSH endpoint via a malformed authentication request (for example, via a truncated packet). | O
A vulnerable OpenSSH server would react in two very different ways when this happens. | O
If the username included in the malformed authentication request does not exist, the server responds with authentication failure reply. | O
If the user does exist, the server closes the connection without a reply. | O
This small behavioral detail allows an attacker to guess valid usernames registered on a SSH server. | O
Knowing the exact username may not pose an immediate danger, but it exposes that username to brute-force or dictionary attacks that can also guess its password. | O
Because of OpenSSH's huge install base, the bug is ideal for both attacks on high-value targets, but also in mass-exploitation scenarios. | O
The bug —tracked as CVE-2018-15473— has been patched in the stable version of OpenSSH —1:6.7p1-1 and 1:7.7p1-1— and the 1:7.7p1-4 unstable branch. | PatchVulnerability, DiscoverVulnerability
Patches have also trickled down to Debian, and most likely other Linux distros. | PatchVulnerability
