Nigerian fraudsters target India with new tactics, security experts warn | O
Nigerian scamsters have changed tactics as they target Indian people online, security experts have warned. | O
The fraudsters are no longer relying on phishing emails about lotteries and charity as bait, but are duping people on the pretext of partnering with MNCs (multinational companies), investing in herbal seed businesses and channelising foreign funds. | AttackPhishing
According to security agencies, there is a complete shift in the modus operandi of these Nigerian web gangs. | O
A senior Delhi Police Crime Branch officer said: 'The scamsters lure gullible targets via social networking sites such as Facebook. | AttackPhishing
'They then pose as diplomats or MNC executives and entice their targets to invest in a global venture, which actually does not exist. | AttackPhishing
'Interestingly, all dealings are done at high-secured areas such as airport and five-star hotels to give an impression of being high-flyers and avoid the risk of getting into trouble.' | O
'There is no fixed narrative. | O
Depending upon the profile of the target, the gang traps them. | O
In the herbal seeds scam, the victim is approached online as a representative of an overseas pharmaceutical firm looking to source herbal seeds from local farmers through an agent. | O
They promise the victim huge returns if they pay the agent upfront for the seeds. | O
Then they disappear with the money,' said Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force's additional superintendent of police Triveni Singh. | O
One of the latest victims is Meerut's Varun Thapar, who lost Rs 3 lakh to a Nigerian gang. | O
Thapar went to meet the gang members at a five star hotel in Mumbai and Delhi. | O
He told Mail Today: 'The gang members contact through their international number or makes a WhatsApp call. | O
The gang sounds so professional that it is difficult to make out that they are fraud. | O
'I was trapped after getting a friend request from a Manchester-based female executive. | O
I was given seed sample in Mumbai and later duped at a five-star hotel in Delhi. | O
The trap was so perfect that I could not sense any foul play.' | O
During investigation, it was found that all the numbers used for communication were taken on fake identities. | O
Police claim the gangs have developed a new trick, where they pose as diplomat or MNC executive and work in nexus with a local youth who helps them with logistics. | AttackPhishing
