Google to crackdown on intrusive and manipulative pop-up ads in its Chrome browser after the company failed to stop them in earlier versions | O
Google has announced a crackdown on intrusive pop-up advertisements on its Chrome web browser after a previous update failed to stop them. | O
The ads open users up to phishing attacks that attempt to scam people into giving private information such as bank details to online fraudsters. | AttackPhishing
Google says the ads create an 'abusive experience for users', including fee messages, unexpected clicks, phishing attempts and misleading site behaviour. | AttackPhishing
The firm tried to stop manipulative adverts in an update last February but now admits that it 'did not go far enough'. | PatchVulnerability
Chrome currently has an option to enable a pop-up blocker but fraudsters have quickly found ways around this. | O
The company declined to name the companies involved in the crackdown but said that the update will block ads from a 'small number of sites with persistent abusive problems'. | PatchVulnerability
Pop-ups are small windows that tend to show system warnings which are difficult to close, as well as 'watch video' buttons. | O
When the company announced its previous crackdown back in February, critics were quick to point out that the firm wanted to make ads more tolerable - so that their own could get past filters. | O
Some said that the aim was to persuade people to disable their ad block so as not to deprive publishers (including Google) from displaying their advertisements and thus depriving them of revenue. | O
Although they did not go into detail about why the previous block didn't work, Chrome product manager Vivek Sekhar said: 'We've learned since then that this approach did not go far enough.' | O
'In fact, more than half of these abusive experiences are not blocked by our current set of protections, and nearly all involve harmful or misleading ads.' | O
Advertisements also tend to be a hotbed for malicious software or scams where fraudsters trick people into giving out their personal information. | AttackPhishing
Once a pop-up is clicked on, the ad can take you to a separate web page asking you to download an application and actually triggers an onslaught of more pop-up ads | AttackPhishing
