Fraud risk: 'Got an email from Amazon or Paypal? Delete it' | AttackPhishing
Consumers are being left vulnerable to increasingly sophisticated cybercriminals because major companies are not taking measures to protect them from plagues of fake emails, a leading cyber-crime expert has claimed. | O
Billions of “phishing” emails purporting to be from companies we trust such as Apple and Amazon, or banks, charities and even government departments, are reaching consumers’ inboxes. | AttackPhishing
Their intention is to trick recipients into visiting a website – specially created to mirror a legitimate business’s site – and entering personal details such as email addresses and passwords. | AttackPhishing
These can be used by criminals in a number of ways, including accessing bank accounts, making payments or applying for credit or other services. | O
Phishing emails are cleverly designed to mimic the firm’s real emails. | AttackPhishing
They are increasingly well-written. | O
Worryingly, as fraudsters invest more in their processes, the emails are also more likely to bypass spam filters. | O
To add to the convincing effect, criminals are buying domain names similar to the companies they are impersonating, so recipients are more likely to think the emails real. | AttackPhishing
Since January Action Fraud, the national cybercrime reporting service, has issued alerts about scams involving fake correspondence from HMRC, Amazon, and the Department of Education, among others. | O
But now the proliferation of these emails is causing some to question whether the real businesses are doing enough to protect their customers. | O
Chris Underhill, chief technical officer at Cyber Security Partners, a consultancy, said firms that communicate by email have a “corporate responsibility” to prevent fraudsters impersonating them online. | O
He said many firms were failing to take the basic – and inexpensive – precaution of buying up domain names similar to their own. | O
He said: “The technology is there for little cost but sadly the adoption rate is low. | O
“The responsibility is now placed on the consumer to check the sender of the emails is real.” | O
Telegraph Money found it was possible, for example, to buy domain names such as amazonuk.org, amazon.eu.co.uk or amazonuk.tech for as little as £5.99 per year. | O
Andrew Goodwill, of The Goodwill Group, a fraud-prevention consultancy, said consumers should “be incredibly sceptical” about any unsolicited digital communication even from familiar companies. | O
If they contained links or asked for personal information they were “more than likely to be fake”, he said. | AttackPhishing
He added: “It’s a difficult situation. | O
Why wouldn’t you expect to receive an email from a service you use? | O
