Ohio cities face increasing ransomware, cyber attacks | AttackRansom
When two ransomware attacks hit the city of Riverside in April and May, it wasn’t the first time the city’s public safety servers lost data because of a malicious virus, this newspaper found in a review of city records. | AttackRansom
A check of newspapers across Ohio reveals similar unfortunate targets around the state: Licking County government, the Columbiana County courts and townships in Clinton and Morrow counties were once all ransomware victims. | O
In Clark County, hackers encrypted the Mad River Twp. | O
Fire and EMS servers with ransomware in December. | O
The damage extends across the nation: When a library system in South Carolina faced a ransomware attack, patrons couldn’t check out or return books. | AttackRansom
In Richmond, Indiana, the local housing agency fell victim to a $8,000 ransom. | AttackRansom
Hackers shut down 2,000 computers at Colorado’s transportation department, then attacked again when the agency tried to recover. | O
While the hackers’ ideal target — and the damage caused — varies, one certainty is that local governments are not exempt from the pain of ransomware, which is malicious software that threatens to block access to data or to publish it unless the infected organization pays a ransom. | AttackRansom
The ransom demands are often relatively small compared to an organization’s overall budget, but the cost of avoiding payment can be steep, as the city of Atlanta found this year. | AttackRansom
An attacker demanded a $50,000 ransom to restore the Atlanta’s systems, but the city ended up shelling out nearly $2.7 million on eight emergency contracts in an attempt to fix the problem. | AttackRansom
Experts encouraged all computer users to follow one rule to avoid ransomware’s predilection for data destruction. | O
“Real simple,” said John Moore, a computer technician in Trotwood. | O
“Back up your data.” | O

Prior attack uncovered | O
Hackers hit Riverside’s police computers with ransomware several years before the latest incidents, emails obtained by the newspaper show. | O
The attack — previously unknown to the public before this story — occurred under a prior city manager and also saw the police department lose documents, according to an email from Councilman Steve Fullenkamp to other city leaders. | O
Sometimes, as was the case with at least one of Riverside’s recent attacks, the virus can be downloaded by clicking on an infected email. | O
Organizations often don’t learn they have been infected until they can’t access their data or until computer messages appear demanding a ransom payment in exchange for a decryption key, according to the FBI’s website. | AttackRansom
The first of the recent attacks against Riverside erased about 10 months of police records, the records show. | O
The second attack wiped just several hours of data, because the city had backed-up the data. | O
