DVLA SCAM WARNING - If you receive these messages about car tax then you must do THIS
A NEW DVLA car tax scam is doing the rounds online which could see motorists duped into entering sensitive information and being ripped off by criminals. | AttackPhishing
Here’s what to do if you receive this message. | O
DVLA car tax scam are not a new thing and every couple of months a new one does the rounds. | O
Criminals pose as the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency in a bid to extort motorists of their cash by requesting this bank details. | AttackPhishing
These crooks usually try to achieve this by threatening a monetary punishment of some sort or in other cases by stating that the driver is entitled to a refund. | O
The problem for some motorists could fall for the fraudulent messages especially as they often look fairly professional and can even contain the logo of the DVLA. | AttackPhishing
Motorists Jason Price, however, was not fooled by the latest attempt by fraudsters trying to get him to hand over his details. | AttackPhishing
Mr Price tweeted a link to the email that he received from the criminal pretending to be the DVLA. | AttackPhishing
The subject of the email is “You are not up-to-date with your vehicle tax” followed by a bogus item reference number, which presumably is to, in some way, make the email seem more legitimate. | O
The contents of the email claim that the driver is not up to date with their vehicle tax and states that this is their ‘last chance’ to pay the remainder of the fee. | O
It reads: “Our records show that you are not up-to-date with your vehicle tax. | O
“This is a reminder (V11) and a ‘last chance’ warning letter from us. | O
“Tax your car, motorcycle or other vehicle today to avoid unpleasant consequences. | O
“You must tax your vehicle even if you don’t have to pay anything, for example if you’re exempt because you’re disabled. | O
“You’ll need to meet all the legal obligations for drivers before you can drive.” | O
It also states that “You can be fined up to £1,000 if you do not renew your car tax” | O
The DVLA has issued numerous warnings to customers in the past about how it will never contact the motorist in this way. " | O
“#SCAM WARNING: We're reminding customers that the only official place to find our services and information is on http://GOV.UK " | O
“Cyber scams are common so we want to help our customers to spot fraudulent activity.” | O
If you receive an email or message like this you should either report it or instantly delete it and not click the link in the message. | O
If you’re unsure on the validity of a message then you can ring the licensing agency. | O

