Spotting and avoiding phishing scams so you don’t get hooked
The BBC recently uncovered that scammers are attempting to trick us through the abuse of multilingual character sets. | AttackPhishing
By creating these lookalike sites with domain names that are almost identical to the URLs we know and trust, it’s made telling the difference between fake and genuine sites – and avoiding phishing scams – increasingly difficult. | AttackPhishing
Research by security company Wandera revealed that people are three times more likely to fall for a phishing scam if it is on their phone. | AttackPhishing
As a result, this new scam targets smartphone users, where the lookalike sites are harder to spot. | AttackPhishing

A recent survey that tested the British public’s knowledge of scams and online security behaviours found 16% of British adults have experienced online fraud. | O
For phishing scams specifically, it’s one in ten of us. | AttackPhishing
The most common age group to experience online fraud is 35 – 54, with almost one-fifth (19%) of this demographic having fallen victim to a scam. | O
CEO of Get Safe Online, Tony Neate, said: | O
“While online fraud is common, it becomes less so when you engage common sense. | O
“It is very easy to clone a real website and does not take a skilled developer long to produce a very professional-looking but malicious site, but if you know what to look for, it’s easy to stay safe.” | AttackPhishing

There are numerous ways to determine whether or not a received email is from a legitimate company trying to help, or a scammer looking to steal financial details. | AttackDatabreach
The initial sender is a good starting point. | O
Take the time to look at the email address you’re being contacted by, not just the name. | O
An unfamiliar address, or one that doesn’t correspond with the company, is a giveaway that it’s a fraudster. | O
Then take a look at the greeting. | O
If the email opens with ‘Dear loyal customer’ or ‘Hello (followed by your email address)’ then it’s another telltale sign. | O
The real company would address you by your full name and make it personal to you. | O
Careless slip-ups in the copy of the email are also giveaways. | O
Does any of the grammar or spelling not sit quite right? This is a big indicator that it’s a phishing scam. | AttackPhishing
You wouldn’t expect poor language by someone from a legitimate company. | O
