Robocalls aren't stopping and this time they're in Chinese | O
Scammers are flooding the United States with Chinese-language robocalls, causing major headaches from coast to coast. | O
These new robocalls are a lot like the ones you’ve already gotten on your phone at all hours of the day and night: Your phone rings, you pick up, and after a brief pause or maybe a quiet click or beep, a prerecorded voice message meets your ears. | O
The recording, which often sounds like a young woman, usually delivers a message about lowering credit-card rates or buying into cheap health insurance. | O
If you fall for the bait, you’re transferred to a live human who will try anything to get you to hand over your credit-card or bank account info. | AttackPhishing
The important thing to remember is that sales robocalls are illegal in the United States. | AttackPhishing
So, don’t expect the person on the other end of the line to follow through on whatever deal they claim to offer. | O
You’re much more likely to fall victim to an identity theft scam or credit-card fraud than to score a deal from one of these spam callers. | O
The new Chinese-language version of these calls targets immigrants. | O
The robocalls deliver a recorded message claiming to be from the Chinese consulate, saying the recipient is in trouble with Chinese officials, or sometimes that a package is waiting at the Chinese consulate that needs to be picked up. | AttackPhishing
Then, the robocall asks for a deposit or fee, demanding a credit-card number or bank information. | AttackPhishing
Sometimes the robocall or live operator who follows it makes a threat, suggesting that more trouble will come if the person doesn’t willingly hand over their financial info, according to the Federal Trade Commission. | O
In New York City alone, police estimate at least 30 residents had been scammed out of $3 million, according to National Public Radio. | O
The Chinese Consulate General in New York says it has posted dozens of alerts on its website warning about the scams. | O
"We would like to restate that the Consulate General in New York would not ask for personal information, deliver parcel pick-up notice or ask people to answer inquiries from police department by way of phone calls. | O
The Consulate General would not ask for bank account information," it warned. | O
The scammers are also upping the ante with a tech trick called “spoofing.” | AttackPhishing
Spoofed calls can fake caller ID numbers, making them look like they’re coming from a familiar number, nearby area code, your hometown or in this case, the Chinese consulate, according to the Federal Communications Commission, which also issued an alert. | AttackPhishing
So, even if you don't speak Chinese, why would you get so many calls? The scammers don’t know who they’re calling, and it costs virtually nothing to place a phone call, so if they hit a few thousand English-speaking phones for every one Chinese speaker that’s totally fine with them. | O
This scam uses many of the same ploys used on unsuspecting English speakers, say in the scam where the caller pretends to be from the IRS and is demanding payments on back taxes that don’t really exist.  | AttackPhishing
