Cryptocurrency scams are now targeting Facebook | O
Last week, we reported about these alarming cryptocurrency scams spreading via Twitter. | O
These weren't your garden-variety spam posts either, but rather, fraudsters were hacking into the verified accounts of celebrities and brands in an attempt to lure unsuspecting victims. | AttackPhishing
But it looks like these crypto-scammers are moving on and are now targeting other social media platforms, as well. | O
This time, they're gaming Facebook's official sponsored ad system to fool eager people who are looking to make a quick profit. | AttackPhishing
Read on and see what this new scheme is all about. | O
Cybercriminals are relentlessly coming up with new tactics all the time, and it's always good to be aware of their latest schemes. | O
This new ploy is a classic phishing scam that's meant to steal your personal information like your name, email and credit card numbers. | AttackPhishing
And similar to other elaborate phishing scams, these cybercriminals created a bunch of fake websites, news articles and ads for that purpose. | AttackPhishing
The whole ploy starts with a fake Facebook sponsored ad promoting an easy "wealth building" scheme. | O
Accompanying the post is an embedded report that appears to originate from the news site CNBC. | O
If you take the bait and click through the ad, the ruse gets more obvious. | AttackPhishing
First, the link's web address doesn't belong to any CNBC domain. | O
However, the fraudsters mimicked the look and feel of the real CNBC site so there's a chance an unsuspecting eye might get duped. | AttackPhishing
But yes sir, the entire news article is completely fraudulent, the fakest of fake news. | O
Basically, it states that Singapore has officially adopted a certain cryptocurrency and has anointed a firm, dubbed the CashlessPay Group, to market and purchase it. | O
Nevermind that CashlessPay sounds just like another third-rate pyramid scheme, but let's go along for the ride, shall we? | O
You probably know by now that there are tons of bogus information going on in Facebook at any given time. | O
The social media giant is trying to clean up its act, though. | O
If you can recall, Facebook banned blockchain and cryptocurrency ads earlier this year but softened its stance by allowing pre-approved cryptocurrency advertisers to post sponsored ads. | O
(Can't resist the revenue, eh?) | O
But as always, scammers have found a way to exploit this loophole to spread their scams. | O