Cyber attack targets ONWASA; company refusing to pay ransom | AttackRansom
In the wake of Hurricane Florence disaster, ONWASA, a water utility company has been specifically targeted by cyber criminals. | O
ONWASA provides water and sewer service to all of Onslow County except Jacksonville residents. | O
According to a press release, ONWASA's internal computer system, including servers and personal computers, have been subjected to a sophisticated ransomware attack. | AttackRansom
The attack has left the utility with limited computer capabilities. | O
CEO Jeffrey Hudson said customer information was not compromised in the attack. | AttackDatabreach
However, many other databases must be recreated in their entirety. | O
ONWASA is working with the FBI, the Department of Homeland Security, the state of North Carolina and several technology security companies. | O
They are also receiving help from N.C. Senator Harry Brown and N.C. Senator Thom Tillis. | O
Hudson said he believes the attack was a targeted one because the hackers chose a local government that has recently been ransacked by a natural disaster. | O
The hackers struck at 3 a.m. on Saturday -- a time Hudson says was their most vulnerable. | O
The attack is similar in nature to the one experienced in Mecklenburg County last year. | O
Hudson said the damage the attack caused could take weeks or even months to fix. | O
According to ONWASA, the company had multiple layers of computer protection in place, including firewalls and malware/anti-virus software. | O
The defenses of the computer systems at the main office were penetrated. | O
ONWASA has received one email from the cyber criminals, who may be based in a foreign country. | O
The email is consistent with ransomware attacks of other governments and corporations. | AttackRansom
Ransom monies would be used to fund criminal, and perhaps terrorist activities in other countries.  | O 
There is no expectation that a ransom payment would stop future attacks. | AttackRansom
The cyber attackers are demanding payment to decrypt everything that was stolen. | AttackRansom
ONWASA said it will not "negotiate with criminals nor bow to their demands." | AttackRansom
Instead, ONWASA will rebuild its databases and computer systems from the ground up. | AttackRansom