Cooking Utensil Firm OXO Files Data Breach in California
Award-winning cooking tools company OXO revealed that it has suffered data breaches over the last two years that may have compromised customer and credit card information. | AttackDatabreach
In a breach disclosure letter filed with the State of California, OXO said that the data security incident involved “sophisticated criminal activity that may have exposed some of your personal information.” | AttackDatabreach
The attacker is believed to have accessed credit card information, along with names and billing and shipping addresses, though the letter does not state the scope of impact. | AttackDatabreach
“On December 17, 2018, OXO confirmed through our forensic investigators that the security of certain personal information that you entered into our e-commerce website (https://www.oxo.com) may have been compromised . | AttackDatabreach
We currently believe that information entered in the customer order form between June 9, 2017 – November 28, 2017, June 8, 2018 – June 9, 2018, July 20, 2018 – October 16, 2018 may have been compromised. | AttackDatabreach
While we believe the attempt to compromise your payment information may have been ineffective, we are notifying you out of an abundance of caution.”| AttackDatabreach
OXO is currently working with security consultants and forensic investigators, who are looking at past vulnerabilities in the website as part of an ongoing investigation of the incident. | DiscoverVulnerability
Additionally, the company has taken measures to secure its site to prevent future incidents. | O
“This latest breach underscores the importance of 24/7 security monitoring,” said Matan Or-El, CEO of Panorays. | O
“With the new year upon us, companies should perform an in-depth review of all their digital assets to ensure that they and their third parties have not been compromised. | O
We expect that future hacks will be targeted towards entire industries so as to maximize the payout for cyber-criminals.” | O
OXO has also secured the services of risk mitigation and response firm Kroll in order to extend identify monitoring services to its customers. | O


