Victims' real details helping hackers trick victims into installing banking malware
A spam campaign targeting German users has increased its chances of successfully tricking users into installing malware, by embedding several pieces of the victim's personal information into its poisoned email messages. | Phishing, Databreach
The campaign, which has been active since at least January 2017, begins when a user receives an email written entirely in German. | O
Its message informs the recipient they've attempted to pay for something online but that the transaction did not complete successfully. | Phishing
The user must re-submit payment, the email demands, otherwise they could be penalized by a collection agency or even law enforcement. | Phishing
Sample of spam message seen targeting German users. | Phishing, Databreach
Most of us know better than to fall for this type of scam, and the attackers know it. | Databreach
Which is why they've outfitted their attack emails with a technique that's designed to convince the recipient the notice is legitimate. | Phishing
Andrew Brandt, director of threat research at Symantec, elaborates on this point in a blog post: | O
"The key detail of each message was the fact that the recipient’s full name, mailing address, and telephone number were embedded in the middle of the message." | Phishing
Brandt doesn't elaborate on how the attackers obtain users' personal information. | Phishing, Databreach
Technically, bad actors can use Google and other tools to easily find these details. | O
Seeing your personal information is enough to sway most users, so much so that a recipient would probably open the double-zipped attachment and thereby expose themselves to Nymaim.B. | Phishing, Databreach
For its command and control (C&C) server, this banking trojan uses afegesinge[dot]com. | O
At one point in time, 13 other malware executables communicated with it. | O
Back in April 2016, for instance, BBC News reporter Shari Vahl and ZDNet journalist Zack Whittaker  separately spotted malicious emails in their inboxes that said they owed money to a collection agency, and included their real-life address information to make the messages appear more convincing. | Phishing
Unlike the German campaign, however, the UK attack sought to trick users into clicking on links that led them to Maktub ransomware. | Phishing, Databreach
No matter how convincing an email seems to be, it always pays to double check these kinds of claims by calling the company purportedly making the claim to confirm the message’s authenticity (or to prove that it is false)." | O
Aside from confirming with the alleged sender, users should maintain an up-to-date security solution on their computers, implement software updates as soon as they become available, and delete any suspicious emails. | Phishing, Databreach

