Malware 'disguised as Siemens software drills into 10 industrial plants' • The Register
Malware posing as legitimate software for Siemens control gear has apparently infected industrial equipment worldwide over the past four years. | Phishing
The cyber-nasty is packaged as software to be installed on Siemens programmable logic controllers (PLC), we're told. | Phishing
At least 10 industrial plants – seven in the US – were found running the infected software, a study by industrial cybersecurity firm Dragos claims. | Phishing
According to the Maryland-based biz, this particular malware was specifically thrown at industrial control equipment. | Phishing
Exactly what it does, or did, is not explained, although it is described as "crimeware". | O
Dragos CEO Robert Lee writes: | O
Starting in 2013, there were submissions from an ICS environment in the US for Siemens programmable logic controller control software. | Phishing
The various anti-virus vendors were flagging it as a false positive initially, and then eventually a basic piece of malware. | Phishing
In short, there has been an active infection for the last four years of an adversary attempting to compromise industrial environments by theming their malware to look like Siemens control software. | Phishing
However, each new IP address punches another hole in the metaphorical wall that separates Information Technology (IT) and Operational Technology (OT). | O
Having established IT connectivity, it's difficult to put the genie back in the bottle and each of these avenues is a potential point of weakness that can be compromised – by hackers burrowing in or malware (such as ransomware) detonating internally and then radiating out." | Phishing
Andrew Cooke, head of cyber consulting at Airbus Defence and Space CyberSecurity, added: "Malware is prevalent in a wide range of industrial systems, often spread by an infected USB stick or by unauthorized remote access. | Phishing
But while the majority of malware found in these systems is low level, it can still pose a serious risk for the organizations concerned. | Phishing

