Aviation-Related Phishing Campaigns Seeking Credentials | Threatpost | The first stop for security news
“Over the past several weeks, we have seen a combination of attack techniques. | O
One, where an attacker impersonates a travel agency or someone inside a company. | O
Recipients are told an email contains an airline ticket or e-ticket,” said Asaf Cidon, vice president, content security services at Barracuda Networks. | Phishing
Attachments, he said, are documents rigged with malware or are designed to download it from a command and control server. | O
Cidon said other aviation-themed phishing attacks contain links to spoofed airline sites. | Phishing
In these types of attacks, adversaries go to great lengths to spoof the airline’s site. | Phishing
“It’s clear there is some degree of advanced reconnaissance that takes place before targeting individuals within these companies,” Cidon said. | O
Recent phishing campaigns, he said, are targeting logistic, shipping and manufacturing industries. | Phishing
Barracuda’s warning comes a week after the U.S. Computer Emergency Readiness Team issued an alert of similar attacks targeting airline consumers. | Phishing
It warned email-based phishing campaigns were attempting to obtain credentials as well. | Phishing
“Systems infected through phishing campaigns act as an entry point for attackers to gain access to sensitive business or personal information,” according to the US-CERT warning. | Phishing, Databreach
Delta said some victims were sent emails that claimed to contain invoices or receipts inside attached documents. | Phishing
When asked about the warning, Delta declined to comment. | O
More troubling to Barracuda researchers was the success rate adversaries are having with phishing campaigns it is tracking. | Phishing
“Our analysis shows that for the airline phishing attack, attackers are successful over 90 percent of the time in getting employees to open airline impersonation emails,” Cidon wrote in a research note posted Thursday. | Phishing
“This is one of the highest success rates for phishing attacks”. | Phishing
In June, Microsoft Malware Protection Center reported a resurgence in the use of Office document macro attacks. | O
Researchers say crooks attempting to install malware and perpetrate credential-harvesting attacks are more likely to use social engineering to trick people into installing malware than to exploit vulnerabilities with tools such as exploit kits. | Databreach, Phishing

