Safaricom thwarts cyber attack attempts - Citizentv.co.ke | O
Listed telecom operator Safaricom has become the latest corporate institution to come under a cyber attack. | O
According to Safaricom, the hackers attempted to gain access to its system with an intention of gaining access to customer funds on its mobile money transfer platform M-Pesa. | O
The telecom termed the breach as an elaborate cyber crime fraud attempt. | O
Safaricom chief executive officer Bob Collymore said the firm’s risk management unit detected the intrusion and immediately escalated the incident to the security agencies. | O
The Safaricom boss however sought to assure customers that there was no cause for worry as no money had been lost. | O
“This matter is being treated with the seriousness it deserves with the suspects due to be arraigned in court. | O
I wish assure our customers that all their data is safe and we have no evidence of any money being removed from the system,” Mr Collymore said in a statement to newsrooms. | O
One method used by the hackers to access customer information was through a SIM swap that gives the fraudster access to a customer’s SIM card. | AttackDatabreach
In the reported case, they managed to access Sh266,000 from one customer. | O
Safaricom however says the funds were refunded once the breach was detected. | O
M-Pesa is the largest mobile money transfer system in the country and has also been linked to several banks. | O
Safaricom has partnered with the KCB Group and the Commercial Bank of Africa (CBA) to create mobile accounts that enable customers to deposit, transfer and request loans. | O
In March, authorities discovered a cybercrime syndicated that had infiltrated the Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) several blue chip companies as well as a supermarket chain. | O
In the case of KRA, some Sh4 billion was said to be at risk from the cyber attack. | O
Mr Collymore said the firm routinely and proactively implements preventative and detective controls around its information security on all its platforms. | O
