Payday loan firm Wonga suffers data breach affecting up to 270,000  |  TechCrunch | AttackDatabreach
Payday loan firm Wonga has suffered a data breach affecting up to 245,000 customers in the U.K. A further 25,000 customers in Poland may also be affected, according to the BBC. | AttackDatabreach
It says it does not believe customers’ Wonga account passwords were compromised but suggests concerned users change their password anyway. | AttackDatabreach
Wonga is warning affected customers to be “extra vigilant” and to alert their bank of potential risk — though it says it will also be contacting financial institutions about the breach. | AttackDatabreach
We’ve reached out to Wonga with questions and will update this story with any response. | O
Update: In a statement a spokesperson for the company told us: “Wonga is urgently investigating illegal and unauthorised access to the personal data of some of its customers in the UK and Poland. | AttackDatabreach
We are working closely with authorities and we are in the process of informing affected customers. | AttackDatabreach
According to The Guardian, the company became aware of a problem last week but only realized on Friday that data could be accessed externally, and only started contacting affected customers on Saturday. | AttackDatabreach
The U.K.’s data protection regulator, the ICO, has apparently been informed of the breach — although it’s unclear when. | O
An ICO spokesperson did not respond to the question, providing this statement instead: “All organisations have a responsibility to keep customers’ personal information secure. | O
Where we find this has not happened, we can investigate and may take enforcement action”. | O
Back in 2014 the company had to write down $340 million in unpaid loans, following an investigation by the U.K.’s Competition and Markets Authority over its lending practices. | O
It was also fined by the regulator for sending fake lawyers’ letters to customers in arrears. | O
Although Wonga attracted substantial tech investment for a real-time automated decision-making platform for affordability checks, it ended up having to write off the loans of 330,000 customers, and waive the interest and fees for a further 45,000 — raising questions about the efficacy of its algorithms. | O
Tightened criteria on short-term loans by the U.K. financial regulator ultimately shrunk the size of Wonga’s business, which saw losses double in 2015 — to £80.2 million. | O
