Ransomware Recap: Tougher Tactics and Evasion Techniques
Ransomware authors are nothing if not persistent.  | O
They continue to try new evasion techniques, new programming languages, new naming conventions, and even more forceful demand tactics to pressure victims into paying. | AttackRansom
One new technique involves packaging ransomware in RarSFX executable files.  | O
Last week we talked about a multi-component variant of Cerber (detected as RANSOM_CERBER) found packaged in a SFX file, a feature that helps it evade machine learning.  | O
This week, we saw CrptXXX (detected by Trend Micro as RANSOM_CRPTX.A) also in a SFX package—most likely for the same reason.  | O
This particular ransomware cannot execute fully without the correct parameters and other components inside its package. | O
If CrptXXX successfully infects a system, the victim receives a relatively straightforward ransom note.  | AttackRansom
They are instructed to go to a specific .onion site and input their unique ID, then follow the payment instructions. | O
French Locker (detected by Trend Micro as RANSOM_LELEOCK.A) is a typical ransomware made by developers who want to get paid quickly. | O
This ransomware displays a 10 minute timer and deletes one of the victim's encrypted files for every 10 minutes that passes. | AttackRansom
It arrives through malicious sites or is dropped by other malware, and victims can choose between English or a French version.  | AttackRansom
Initially, the ransomware will install an autostart registry for its dropped copy, which triggers its encryption routine once the machine reboots.  | O
Encrypted files are appended with the .lelele extension. | O
SAMSAM has been updated with a new variant (detected by Trend Micro as RANSOM_SAMAS.I). | O
The previous version made waves in 2016 after it targeted vulnerable hospital servers.  | O
Traditionally, ransomware spreads through social engineering, malvertisments, or spam—SAMSAM set itself apart when it targeted the network infrastructure of certain healthcare facilities.  | AttackRansom
The threat actors behind this ransomware gain access to the administrative rights of a network and pinpoint specific target hosts.  | AttackRansom
They deploy to a sizeable portion of the victim’s network, causing essential systems and services to shut down, leaving the target facility little choice but to pay the ransom. | AttackRansom
This is one of the latest variants of SAMSAM, though this ransomware family constantly changes its behavior when its threat indicators or IOCs are made public. | O
The first ransomware to be written in Google’s Go programming language was detected late last year, and now we have another to add to the list.  | O
Apart from the programming language used, BrainCrypt (detected by Trend Micro as RANSOM_BRAINCRYPT) is a relatively standard ransomware.  | O
There are no specific details in the ransom note, just simple instructions explaining the situation and telling the victim to email the threat actors. | AttackRansom
The continuing evolution of ransomware shows how cybercriminals quick to adopt the latest technology and techniques to make their malware more effective.  | O
Because of this, all users should stay vigilant and updated on the latest threat developments. | O
