IHG Confirms Second Credit Card Breach Impacting 1,000-Plus Hotels | Threatpost | The first stop for security news | O
In what’s becoming a familiar refrain to guests, InterContinental Hotels Group said late last week that payment card systems at more than 1,000 of its hotels had been breached. | AttackDatabreach
It’s the second breach that IHG, a multinational hotel conglomerate that counts Holiday Inn and Crowne Plaza among its chains, has disclosed this year. | O
The company acknowledged in February that a credit card breach affected 12 of its hotels and restaurants. | O
In a notice published to its site on Friday, the company said a second breach occurred at select hotels between September 29 and December 29 last year. | O
IHG says there’s no evidence payment card data was accessed after that point but can’t confirm the malware was eradicated until two to three months later, in February/March 2017, when it began its investigation around the breach. | O
Like most forms of payment card malware these days, IHG said the variant on their system siphoned track data – customers’ card number, expiration date, and internal verification code – from the magnetic strip of cards as they were routed through affected hotel servers. | AttackDatabreach
The hotelier said the first breach also stemmed from malware found on servers used to process credit cards, but from August to December 2016. | O
That breach affected hotels, along with bars and restaurants at hotels, such as Michael Jordan’s Steak House and Bar at InterContinental Chicago and the Copper Lounge at Intercontinental Los Angeles. | O
IHG didn’t state exactly how many properties were affected by the second breach but that customers can use a lookup tool the company has posted to its site to search for hotels in select states and cities. | O
IHG gives a timeline for each property and says hotels listed on the tool “may have been affected.” | O
A cursory review of hotels in the lookup tool suggests far more than a dozen – more than a thousand – hotels, were affected by the malware. | O
IHG says that since the investigation is ongoing the tool may be updated periodically. | O
Some properties, for a reason not disclosed, elected to not participate in the investigation, IHG said. | O
While the company operates 5,000 hotels worldwide this most recent breach affects mostly U.S.-based chains. | O
One hotel in Puerto Rico, a Holiday Inn Express in San Juan, is the only non-U.S. property that was hit by malware this time around, IHG claims. | O
The company said it began implementing a point-to-point encryption payment solution – technology that can reportedly prevent malware from scouring systems for payment card data last fall. | O
The hotels that were hit by this particular strain of malware had not yet implemented the encryption technology, IHG claims. | O
The news comes as an IHG subsidiary, boutique hotel chain Kimpton, is fighting a class action court case that alleges the company failed to take adequate and reasonable measures to protect guests' payment card data. | O
The chain said it was investigating a rash of unauthorized charges on cards used at its locations last summer. | O
It eventually confirmed a breach in late August that involved cards used from February 16, 2016, to July 7, 2016, at nearly all of its restaurants and hotels. | O
