Shadow Brokers leak NSA-linked Microsoft hacking tools - CyberScoop
https://www.cyberscoop.com/shadow-brokers-leak-nsa-linked-microsoft-hacking-tools/ 
2017_01_13 

The mysterious group that claims to have stolen digital weapons once used by the National Security Agency published a trove of active Microsoft Windows software exploits on Thursday. | Databreach
The code dump, accompanied by a farewell message written in broken English by the enigmatic group the Shadow Brokers, confirms claims implicit in an earlier post Sunday. | Databreach
While the prior message showed filenames, directories and screenshots — implying the existence of these capabilities — along with an associated price tag, today’s download provides functional code. | O 
Of the 61 files provided in total in the newly released set, only one had ever been catalogued by anti-virus databases, based on a VirusTotal scan conducted earlier Thursday morning. | O 
The files contain user mode and kernel mode modules. | O 
Notably, the one tool effectively recognized by the virus scanner avoided detection from Malwarebytes, Panda, Comodo and Fortinet products, said Rendition Infosec founder Jake Williams. | O 
In their supposed final message, the ShadowBrokers say they are “making [an] exit” and “going dark”— although an associated bitcoin wallet will remain open for new bids. | O 
The group claims it will come out of hiding to provide the remaining stolen hacking tools only upon receiving 10,000 bitcoin, or $8.13 million worth of the anonymous currency. | O 
Cybersecurity experts tell CyberScoop the exploits are outdated because they are designed to work against old versions of Microsoft operating systems. | O 
“This dump contains Windows Implants and not Unix tools, reinforcing the insider theory. | O 
And the outdated Windows target of those implants reinforce the opinion that Shadow Brokers only has old dirt,” said Matt Suiche, founder of United Arab Emirates-based cybersecurity startup Comae Technologies. | O 
“There is no reason to have all the tools of every platforms etc. | O 
The exploits can be understood as highly advanced hacking tools that were likely developed and deployed by a sophisticated adversary, like an intelligence service, explained Michael Zeberlein, director of intelligence analysis with Area 1 Security. | O 
“They’re basically enterprise class IT infrastructure and systems management functions applied in an offensive fashion. | O 
They would help you get very granular control of computers and servers running in an enterprise environment, an entire organization,” Zeberlein told CyberScoop. | O 
“Really, these tools provide incredible capability”. | O 
“There’s no doubt that this is Equation Group’s stuff based on old reporting,” said Zeberlein. | O 
A meticulous analysis associated with Sunday’s blog post suggests that the leaked information likely came from an insider, rather than a hacker with access to a compromised attack server, based on file configurations, CyberScoop first reported. | Databreach
“Attackers and defenders around the globe will be reverse engineering these to repurpose [attacks] and create defenses,” Williams said. | O 
“This data, it’s a big deal … because it includes information related to client and server components, which will basically help [intelligence analysts] trace old breaches back to the Equation Group,” a former U.S. intelligence official told CyberScoop on the condition of anonymity. | O 
The Shadow Brokers first emerged on social media in August by similarly dumping operational code for a cohort of old firewall exploits that targeted vulnerabilities in Cisco, Fortinet and Juniper Networks products. | DiscoverVulnerability
Because the source code for these firewall exploits was provided in a public forum, random hackers began using the tools themselves. | O 
“While we cannot surmise the attacker’s [Shadow Brokers] identity or motivation nor where or how this pilfered trove came to be, we can state that several hundred tools from the leak share a strong connection with our previous findings from the Equation Group,” Kaspersky Lab researchers, many of whom originally helped identify Equation Group’s existence in 2015, wrote in a company blog post in August. | Databreach
The Equation Group is believed to have ties to the NSA. | O 

