Point-of-Sale Malware Steals Driver's License Information | AttackDatabreach
Malware specialized in infecting Point of Sale (PoS) software has gained the ability to search and steal driver's license information, according to a report published by US cyber-security firm Trend Micro. | AttackDatabreach
The collection of driver's license information surprised researchers, who haven't spotted such behavior in a PoS malware family until now. | AttackDatabreach
Even more surprising was that this new data collection system was spotted in an ancient PoS malware family, and not in one of the newer players. | AttackDatabreach
The name of this malware is RawPOS, a malware family that appeared way back in 2008.  | AttackDatabreach
Typically, financial malware lives a few years, then it fizzles out and dies, as security firms learn to detect and stop it. | O
In spite of its old age, RawPOS stuck around, and its operators continued to update and deploy it in attacks over the years. | O
Like all other POS malware families, RawPOS is built to target and infect computers that run PoS software.  | O
On these PCs, the malware lies in hiding and keeps an eye on the data flowing through the computer's RAM.  | O
Using a simple regex string pattern, RawPOS scrapes the RAM until it finds data that fits the pattern. | O
This pattern is specifically designed to detect payment card data, such as card numbers.  | O
Across the years, the different RawPOS versions have featured different versions of this regex string pattern. | O
Earlier this year, Trend Micro discovered the sixth, which featured an expanded regex filter. | O
Besides keeping an eye on credit card data, this expanded filter scraped the infected computer's RAM for the term "driver's license" and "ANSI 636." | AttackDatabreach
While not directly evident for most, ANSI 636 is a barcode format used for the 2D barcode found on US drivers' licenses. | AttackDatabreach
Pharmacies, retail shops, bars, casinos and others establishments usually scan a customer's driver's license as authorization before making particular transactions, such as when buying drugs and alcohol. | O
This data, just like payment card data, is handled and collected by some PoS software solutions, so it makes sense seeing this new regex string pattern inside RawPOS. | O
Researchers believe crooks behind this malware are gathering this information to create more complete victim profiles, in order to aid various fraud operations, such as identity theft. | AttackDatabreach
Even if they don't use the stolen data themselves, the breadth of data encoded in a driver's license barcode is valuable enough to sell on underground markets. | O
Taking into account the copycat nature of the malware scene, this new trick of collecting driver's license information will most likely spread to other PoS malware families. | AttackDatabreach
