Intel chip vulnerability found to be far worse than thought - SiliconANGLE | O
A security vulnerability in Intel Corp. chips first disclosed last week looks far worse than initially thought, as hackers can hijack Intel processors without even needing a password. | DiscoverVulnerability
The vulnerability, which affects all Intel chips manufactured since 2008, from those code-named Nahalem to today’s Kaby Lake, stems from a flaw in vPro firmware suite including Intel Active Management Technology from versions 6 to 11.6. | DiscoverVulnerability
The security hole allows an unprivileged attacker to gain control of the manageability features provided by the firmware suite, giving a would-be hacker the same access that a systems administrator would have, including the ability to change boot up code and access the computer’s mouse, keyboard, monitor and programs installed. | O
Intel argued that access to the vulnerability was fairly limited, in that a password was required to access AMT. | O
But Tenable Network Security Inc. has discovered that the verification process for AMT accepts a blank password submission. | DiscoverVulnerability
As Rick Falkvinge at Private Internet Access explains: | O
In order to get administrator privileges to the server memory, all you needed to do was to submit a blank password field instead of the expected privileged-access password hash, and you would have unlimited and unlogged read/write access to the entire server memory. | O
With the ability to gain access to an Intel central processing unit as simple as submitting no password, experts are warning that the worst should be presumed. | O
“If you have anything connected to the Internet with AMT on, disable it now. | O
Assume the server has already been compromised,” SSH inventor Tatu Ylonen said in a blog post. | O
“The exploit is trivial, a maximum of five lines of Python, and could be doable in a one-line shell command.” | O
He said the flaw gives full control of affected machines, including the ability to read and modify everything. | O 
“It can be used to install persistent malware – possibly in the firmware – and read and modify any data. | O
Ylonen recommended that AMT be disabled today and that affected users “mobilize whomever you need.” More specifically, he said, “start from the most critical servers: Active Directory, certificate authorities, critical databases, code signing servers, firewalls, security servers, HSMs (if they have it enabled).”  | O
Data center operators should “block ports 16992, 16993, 16994, 16995, 623, 664 in internal firewalls” if they can. | O
