Cyber attack hits 26,000 Debenhams Flowers customers
A cyber attack has compromised the personal data of up to 26,000 Debenhams customers. | AttackDatabreach
The breach, which is understood to have been malware-based, targeted the online portal for the retailer's florist arm, Debenhams Flowers. | AttackDatabreach
Debenhams has stressed that the site is operated by Ecomnova, a third-party supplier, and that customers of other services have not been affected. | O
Ecomnova also operates Debenhams' websites for hampers, personalised gifts and wines. | O
While all four sites have been suspended, the retailer has not announced whether the others were also breached. | O
Debenhams confirmed to Sky News that customer payment details, names and addresses were accessed or stolen during the attack. | AttackDatabreach
In a statement the company stressed that it was only the Ecomnova-run site that had been compromised, and that customers of its main website Debenhams.com "can be confident they are unaffected by this attack". | AttackDatabreach
"All affected customers have been contacted by Debenhams to inform them of the incident," the firm told Sky News. | O
"We are working with Ecomnova to ask the banks of those affected to block payment cards of those customers affected and issue customers with new cards." | O
Debenhams said the incident had been reported to the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO), the UK's independent body for upholding the Data Protection Act. | O
Following a cyber attack in October 2015, the ICO fined TalkTalk a record £400,000 after 15,656 individuals' bank account details and sort codes were stolen. | AttackDatabreach
An ICO spokesperson said it was aware of the "potential incident" involving Debenhams Flowers and that enquiries were being made. | O
"Businesses and organisations are required under the Data Protection Act to keep people's personal data safe and secure," the spokesperson said. | O
Debenhams chief executive Sergio Bucher said: "As soon as we were informed that there had been a cyber attack, we suspended the Debenhams Flowers website and commenced a full investigation. | O
"We are very sorry that customers have been affected by this incident and we are doing everything we can to provide advice to affected customers and reduce their risk." | O
Ecomnova did not immediately respond to Sky News for comment. | O
