Hackers Ruin ABC TV Show Premiere, Leak First Eight Episodes on Torrent Site
The hacker group known as The Dark Overlord (TDO) leaked today the first eight episodes of an upcoming TV game show, set to premiere on ABC on Sunday, June 11. | AttackDatabreach
The show's name is Steve Harvey's Funderdome, a seed-funding competition reality series where two budding entrepreneurs go head-to-head to win over a live studio audience to fund their ideas, products or companies. | O
According to ABC, the first season of Funderdome will have 13 episodes. | O
The first eight of these episodes are now available on The Pirate Bay. | O
At the end of April, the same hacker group leaked the first ten episodes of season 5 of Netflix's "Orange Is The New Black" series. | AttackDatabreach
When they leaked the Netflix show, the hackers said they were also in possession of content from other networks. | AttackDatabreach
The named FOX, IFC, NAT GEO, and ABC. | O
In an interview, TDO said they got their hands on the content after they found an unprotected online database belonging to Larson Studios, Inc., an audio post-production company that works with many US television channels and Hollywood movie studios. | O
The hackers weren't able to extract a payment from either Larson Studios or Netflix. | O
Last Friday, on June 2, the hackers teased that an ABC leak was coming, when they tweeted: "American Broadcasting Company may be up next, ladies and gentlemen." | O
Early Monday morning (European timezones), the hackers made good on their promise when they tweeted out the following statement in a Pastebin post. | O
Moments later, they tweeted a link to The Pirate Bay page where users could download the episodes. | O
At the time of writing, only three people are attempting to download the episodes. | O
The lack of interest is justified by this being a new game show, rather than an established brand. | O
I think it's better to censor links and infohashes of the torrent... this website may get sued for promoting piracy. | O 
People who need 'em will go to pirate bay anyway, no need to link it here | O
Surprised anyone would risk jail to steal something as stupid as "Funderdome." Could these leaks actually be promotional since the show is a boring "been done before" affair that no one would get excited over? | O
It's been proven top torrents get top dollar billing too. | O
The hacker probably didn't care about the show... he cared about the money. | O
I think ABC paid ransom for other shows which might have been stolen by this hacker but decided to not pay for this one... | AttackDatabreach, AttackRansom