Boatload of Security Flaws Make Fosscam IP Cameras Absolutely Useless
IP cameras manufactured by Chinese vendor Fosscam are riddled with security flaws that allow an attacker to take over the device and penetrate your network. | DiscoverVulnerability
The issues came to light yesterday when Finnish cyber-security firm F-Secure published its findings after Fosscam failed to answer bug reports and patch its firmware. | DiscoverVulnerability, PatchVulnerability
Below is a list of 18 vulnerabilities researchers discovered in Fosscam IP cameras: | DiscoverVulnerability
The variety of issues F-Secure researchers discovered means there are multiple ways an attacker can hack one of these devices and use it for various operations. | DiscoverVulnerability
"For example, an attacker can view the video feed, control the camera operation, and upload and download files from the built-in FTP server," F-Secure says. | O
" They can stop or freeze the video feed, and use the compromised device for further actions such as DDoS or other malicious activity." | O
"If the device is in a corporate local area network, and the attacker gains access to the network, they can compromise the device and infect it with a persistent remote access malware. | O
The malware would then allow the attacker unfettered access to the corporate network and the associated resources," researchers added. | O
F-Secure researchers say all these vulnerabilities have been confirmed in Fosscam C2 models, but also in Opticam i5, an IP camera sold by another vendor, but based on a white-label Fosscam device. | DiscoverVulnerability
In fact, researchers suspect that Fosscam has sold the vulnerable IP camera model as a white-label product, which other companies bought, plastered their logo on top, and resold as their own devices. | O
F-Secure says it identified 14 other vendors that sell Fosscam made cameras, but they have not tested their products as of yet. | O
F-Secure recommends that network administrators remove any Fosscam made IP camera from their network until the Chinese company patches its firmware. | PatchVulnerability