India’s Famous Horse Racing Site Hacked with Dharma Ransomware
 
 

A popular horse racing website (Racingpulse.in) that operates out of Bangalore, India was reportedly hacked on Tuesday. The hackers posted a statement on the home page informing that the entire data on the website has been encrypted. | AttackRansom
As is the norm, they also informed about what they expected as ransom. | AttackRansom
The ransom note suggested that they were expecting ransom amount in Bitcoins while the amount to be paid was not disclosed clearly. | AttackRansom
The message also included an email address for further communication, which was registered at india.com. | O
The hackers offered Racingpulse.in an unimaginable favor by providing decryption key of a maximum of three files which should not be more than 10mb in size for free. | O
This was probably done to prove that they did hack all the files on the site. | O
The note read: | O
“All your files have been encrypted: All your files have been encrypted due to a security problem with your PC. | O
If you want to restore them, write us to the e-mail mkgoro@india.com, You have to pay for decryption in Bitcoins. | AttackRansom
After payment, we will send you the decryption tool that will decrypt all your files. | O
“Free decryption as a guarantee: Before paying you can send to us up to 3 files for free decryption. | O
The message contained a link to the beginners’ guide to Bitcoins too. | O
“How to obtain Bitcoins: The easiest way to buy bitcoins is LocalBitcoins site. | O
You have to register, click ‘Buy bitcoins’, and select the seller by payment method and price. | O
The ransomware used in this attack is a new version of Dharma Ransomware Trojan. | AttackRansom
In the ransom note, hackers have provided the email address mkgoro@india.com, which is a contact email for the victims to facilitate communication with them. | O
According to security researchers, this new version of Dharma works just like the older version using unsolicited emails. | O
These emails contain social network logos, bank information, payment portals and an option to download and open a file. | O
The previous two attacks were countered by using backup files, said Kumar. | O
“We have now decided to move to another server in the hope of better security, it may take a day for the site to be up and running,” revealed Kumar. | O

