How one man could have deleted any public Facebook video – Naked Security | O
Freelance security researcher Dan Melamed has done us all a solid.
Then, he did the right thing: he reported it to Facebook.
Melamed said in a blog post on Monday that he’d discovered the critical vulnerability in June. | DiscoverVulnerability
Besides finding a kill switch for any public video, he also discovered he could disable commenting on any video. | DiscoverVulnerability
Melamed had looked at the HTTP request that his browser sends to Facebook when he uploads a video. | O
Using a program called Fiddler, he intercepted the request, swapped out his video’s ID for one belonging to a victim’s video, and then sent the modified request on its way to Facebook. | O
Melamed’s method is simple: first, an attacker would either create a public event on Facebook or visit any existing public event. | O
Then, they’d go to the event’s Discussion tab and create an event post by uploading a photo or video. | O
He found that when you swap the value of the composer_unpublished_photo[0] parameter for the ID of the Facebook video you want to kill, the server will balk, putting out this error message: | O
This content is no longer available. | O
Error message or no error message, the video will still successfully attach itself to the created event post. | O
When an attacker refreshes the Events Discussion page, they’d see that the event posting had appeared with the victim’s video attached. | O
Then, it’s just a matter of clicking a small arrow dropdown and choosing “Delete Post”. | O
A dialog box will warn that the video will also be removed from Photos and Videos. | O
If you confirm in the dialog box that yes, you want to delete the video, Poof! | O
Credit where credit’s due, Melamed noted that this vulnerability is similar to another video deletion bug that Indian security researcher and penetration tester Pranav Hivarekar discovered, also in June 2016. | DiscoverVulnerability
In a nutshell: whereas Hivarekar’s flaw had to do with attaching a victim’s video to a comment, Melamed discovered a way to attach the video to an event post. | DiscoverVulnerability
Delete the bath water/event post, and that baby/video gets tossed right out with it. | O
This one had to do with how one man could have deleted any Facebook photo album that he could see. | O
Mark offers this digression: In Melamed’s attack on videos, he specifies the ID of a video he’s targeting specifically, but since video IDs are just numbers, he could have just guessed one and wiped out a video at random. | O

