 Alert: Clever Cyber Monday scam is after your money and identity 
Cyber Monday is here! If you avoided the retail stores and skipped their Black Friday deals, don't worry, you'll get another chance for major savings today. | O 
From clothing to travel to exclusive online-only deals, Cyber Monday still has tons to offer. | O 
But just in time for the Cyber Monday shopping rush, watch out for sinister phishing scams that are making the rounds. | O
With more online shoppers this time around - searching every nook and cranny of the web in search of the best Cyber Monday deals - crooks are again looking to dupe unsuspecting bargain hunters. | AttackPhishing
Stop and Think, Did I order this? | O
One of the most effective tools for a cybercriminal is the phishing scam. | AttackPhishing
This is when a scammer poses as a trustworthy entity and tries tricking you into clicking on a malicious link. | AttackPhishing
Their ultimate goal, of course,  is to steal your sensitive information such as credit card details, usernames and passwords. | AttackDatabreach
With this year's holiday online shopping numbers projected to be the biggest ever, millions of items will be processed and shipped. | O
With this surge in shipping activity, consumer protection groups are warning everyone to watch out for fake delivery notices and package verification scams. | O
For example, if you receive an email from "Amazon" saying that you have a pending delivery that needs verification from you, then that is most likely a phishing scam. | AttackPhishing
Other email phishing scams may also pretend to provide you with a link for shipping updates or special discount coupons and offers. | AttackPhishing
Another popular ploy is the phantom order scam. | O  
These alarming emails are meant to get you clicking by pretending you ordered thousands of dollars of merchandise. | AttackPhishing
But before you click that link,  look out, these deceitful messages can be extremely convincing. | O
Fake delivery and shipping notifications can look just like the real thing, using real logos and art from company websites. | AttackPhishing
These cybercriminals will even set up fake websites that look like the real deal to lure you into giving away your personal information and credit card details. | AttackPhishing 