29,000 taxpayers affected by W-2 scams, IRS issues new warning | CSO Online
 
 

Last week, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) issued a new warning to employers, urging them to stay alert as reports of compromised W-2 records started to climb. | O
This newest advisory aligns with the agency's plan to delay refunds for those filing their returns early in order to combat identity theft and fraud. | O
The IRS also informed employers the W-2 scam has moved beyond corporations, expanding to include schools, tribal organizations, and nonprofits. | O
In a statement, IRS Commissioner, John Koskinen, said the scams - sometimes known as Business Email Compromise (BEC) attacks - are some of the most dangerous email scams the agency has seen in a long time. | AttackPhishing
[ Learn about top security certifications: Who they're for, what they cost, and which you need. | O
"It can result in the large-scale theft of sensitive data that criminals can use to commit various crimes, including filing fraudulent tax returns. | AttackDatabreach
We need everyone’s help to turn the tide against this scheme," Koskinen said. | O
In 2016, at least 145 organizations fell victim to BEC scams, exposing tens of thousands of employees to tax fraud and identity theft. | AttackPhishing
Salted Hash kept track of some of the high-profile cases, and Databreaches.net tracked everything, resulting in a massive list of documented successful attacks. | O
As of February 5, 23 organizations have disclosed BEC-related data breaches publicly, each one resulting in compromised W-2 data. | AttackDatabreach
The confirmed BEC victims include ten school systems, a software development firm, a utility company in Pennsylvania, at least one restaurant in Indianapolis, and businesses operating within the healthcare, finance, manufacturing, and energy sectors. | AttackPhishing
Distribution International emailed employees that their W-2 data was compromised on January 27. | AttackDatabreach
Their notification expands the number of affected taxpayers to more than 30,000. | O
The scammers spoofed an email and  one of the company's owners. | AttackPhishing
W-2 records for all companies and all employees were compromised. | AttackDatabreach
Salted Hash reached out to Sky Climber's CFO, Jeff Caswell, for more information.
Also, the College of Southern Idaho has reported an incident that could impact 3,000 employees. | O
According to Public Information Officer Doug Maughan, the W-2 records affected belong to seasonal and auxiliary staff. | O
Palomar College disclosed an attack on January 30, which affected employee W-2 records. | AttackDatabreach
The school didn't say the incident was the result of a BEC attack, but Salted Hash is listing it anyway due to the timing of the attack and the information targeted. | AttackDatabreach,Phishing
Finally today, the West Michigan Whitecaps - a Class A minor league baseball team affiliated with the Detroit Tigers - said staff W-2 records were compromised after someone posing as a manager requested them. | AttackPhishing
In 2016, the criminals behind the BEC attacks mostly focused on payroll and tax records. | AttackPhishing
This year though, the IRS says that in addition to the usual records request, the scammers are now following-up and requesting wire transfers. | O
"Although not tax related, the wire transfer scam is being coupled with the W-2 scam email, and some companies have lost both employees’ W-2s and thousands of dollars due to wire transfers," the IRS explained in their warning. | O
"Employers should consider creating an internal policy, if one is lacking, on the distribution of employee W-2 information and conducting wire transfers." | O
BEC attacks are essentially Phishing scams, or Spear Phishing since the criminals have a specific target. | AttackPhishing
They're effective too, exploiting the trust relationships that exist within the corporate environment. | O
In a majority of the reported cases from 2016, the attackers forged an email and pretended to be the victim organization's top executive, or someone with direct authority. | AttackPhishing
Often it is the CEO or CFO, but any high-level manager will work. | O

