Sports Direct falls victim to huge cyber attack with hackers 'stealing 30,000 workers' details' - and retailer 'kept it SECRET' from staff
https://www.thesun.co.uk/news/2816322/sports-direct-cyber-attack/ 
2017_02_09 

News Corp is a network of leading companies in the worlds of diversified media, news, education, and information services. | O
Addresses, names and phone numbers for staff were accessed in the data breach | AttackDatabreach
SPORTS Direct failed to tell its workers about a major data breach that saw personal information accessed by hackers. | AttackDatabreach
A cyber attacker gained access to internal systems containing details for phone numbers, names and home and email addresses of the retail giant's 30,000 staff members. | AttackDatabreach
But according to The Register, workers still haven't been told about the breach, which took place in September. | AttackDatabreach
Sports Direct discovered the attack three months later after a phone number was left on the company's internal site with a message encouraging bosses to make contact. | AttackDatabreach
Chiefs filed a report with the Information Commissioner's office after it became aware that personal information had been compromised. | AttackDatabreach
But as there was no evidence the data had been shared, Sports Direct didn't report the breach to staff. | AttackDatabreach
The blunder is the latest in a string of controversies surrounding the sporting goods retailer. | O
Allegations also surfaced of some workers being promised permanent contracts in exchange for sexual favours. | O
Committee chairman Iain Wright said evidence heard by MPs last year suggested Sports Direct's working practices "are closer to that of a Victorian workhouse than that of a modern, reputable High Street retailer". | O
In November, six MPs from the Business and Skills Committee said attempts were made to record their private discussions when they visited Sport Direct to investigate working practices. | O
A spokesman for Sports Direct said: "We cannot comment on operational matters in relation to cyber-security for obvious reasons. | O

