Beware the latest tax-season spear-phishing scam – Naked Security
 
 

You may have heard of the CEO scam: that’s where spear-phishers impersonate a CEO to hit up a company for sensitive information. | AttackPhishing
That’s what happened to Snapchat, when an email came in to its payroll department, masked as an email from CEO Evan Spiegel and asking for employee payroll information. | AttackPhishing
Here’s a turn of that same type of screw: the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) last week sent out an urgent warning about a new tax season scam that wraps the CEO fraud in with a W-2 scam, then adds a dollop of wire fraud on top. | O
A W-2 is a US federal tax form, issued by employers, that has a wealth of personal financial information, including taxpayer ID and how much an employee was paid in a year. | O
This new and nasty dual-phishing scam has moved beyond the corporate world to target nonprofits such as school districts, healthcare organizations, chain restaurants, temporary staffing agencies and tribal organizations. | AttackPhishing
As with earlier CEO spoofing scams, the crooks are doctoring emails to make the messages look like they’re coming from an organization’s executive. | AttackPhishing
Sending the phishing messages to employees in payroll or human resources departments, the criminals request a list of all employees and their W-2 forms. | AttackPhishing
The scam, sometimes referred to as business email compromise (BEC) or business email spoofing (BES), first appeared last year. | AttackPhishing
This year, it’s not only being sent to a broader set of intended victims; it’s also being sent out earlier in the tax season than last year. | O
In a new twist, this year’s spam scamwich also features a followup email from that “executive”, sent to payroll or the comptroller, asking for a wire transfer to a certain account. | AttackPhishing
Some companies have been swindled twice: they’ve lost both employees’ W-2s and thousands of dollars sent out via the wire transfers. | O

