A New Type of Malware Can Lock Power Plant Computers For Ransom - Motherboard
 
 

The hackers could then lock these computers  up and demand a ransom or else cause a blackout or poison the city's water. | AttackRansom
While that's a scary scenario, it fortunately  hasn't happened—yet. | O
But a group of researchers from the Georgia Institute of Technology warn that could change very soon, and to prove it they have developed and tested in their lab a working proof of concept ransomware that specifically targets three types of PLCs. | O
In their scenario, a group of cybercriminals targets PLCs that are exposed online and infects them with custom malware designed to reprogram the tiny computer with a new password, locking out the legitimate owners. | O
The hackers then alert the owner, asking for a ransom. | AttackRansom
"Ransomware" is a specific type of malicious software that infects computers and locks or encrypts their content, demanding a ransom to return the machines  to their original state. | AttackRansom
It's been extremely popular in the last couple of years, and is often successful because it's usually easier for victims to pay the ransom than try to decrypt the files on their own. | AttackRansom
Initially, ransomware targeted regular internet users indiscriminately, but there have already been cases of attacks against hospitals, hotels and other businesses. | O
(And there will soon be attacks on Internet of Things too) | O
 Thus, the researchers argue, it's inevitable that criminals will soon target critical infrastructure directly. | O
Beyah and his colleagues David Formby and Srikar Durbha searched the internet for the two models of PLCs that they attacked in the lab and found more 1,500 that were exposed online. | O
With their research, Beyah said, the three hope that industrial control systems administrators will start adopting common security practices such as changing the PLCs default passwords, putting them behind a firewall, and scanning the networks for potential intruders. | O
If they don't, they might find their systems locked, and the consequence could spill into the physical world. | O
