Proofpoint Finds Social Media Phishing Scam Steals Credentials And Credit Cards - Information Security Buzz
 
 

In a new blog post researchers from Proofpoint have tracked a phishing campaign leveraging the concept of “Twitter Brand Verification”. | AttackPhishing
Because the actors in this case are relying on paid, targeted ads on Twitter, users don’t need to do anything to see the phishing link. | O
Attackers are increasing the sophistication of social engineering approaches and extending them across social channels. | O
Users and brands need to be increasingly savvy to avoid getting snared by ads, accounts, and messages that initially look legitimate. | O
While this attack was observed on Twitter, such a scam could be implemented on any social media platform that implements some form of account verification. | O
The full blog post can be found here, however key takeouts include: | O
“Verified accounts” are a powerful tool on Twitter to help brands differentiate themselves from fraudulent, impersonation, and parody accounts on the social media site. | O
When an account is officially verified, it displays a special badge intended to reassure Twitter users that they are interacting with a genuine brand and not an impostor. | O
Recently, however, threat actors are using the promise of verified accounts to lure users into a credit card phishing scheme. | AttackPhishing
Account verification is a process that Twitter manages for “accounts of public interest” and requires brands to go through multiple verification steps. | O
The promise, then, of a quick verification process is attractive, especially to smaller businesses that potentially lack the resources to meet Twitter’s requirements for account verification. | O
In this phishing attack, discovered by Proofpoint researchers in December, attackers place legitimate ads targeting brand managers and influencers with a link to a phishing site purporting to offer account verification. | AttackPhishing
The ads themselves come from an account that mimics the official Twitter support account, @support. | AttackPhishing
The fraudulent account, @SupportForAll6, uses Twitter branding, logos, colors, etc., to increase the sense of authenticity, despite a very low number of followers and a suspect name. | O

