Latest Huawei Security Advisory Highlights a Privilege Elevation Vulnerability | DiscoverVulnerability
Huawei has just announced a new vulnerability that is currently possible on both the Huawei Honor 7 and the Huawei Mate S. This is said to be a privilege elevation vulnerability that is possible thanks to an arbitrary file upload in Huawei Themes. | DiscoverVulnerability
The vulnerability already has an update ready to fix it and devices susceptible to this simply needs to apply the latest update to be safe from it. | PatchVulnerability
As of right now, we don’t have any details about how quickly this update is going out to devices though. | O
Huawei tells us this vulnerability was initially reported to Huawei PSIRT by Nicky (Wu Huiyu). | DiscoverVulnerability
Nicky works in Tencent’s Security Platform Department and is responsible for finding vulnerabilities in various products and services. | DiscoverVulnerability
We’re told Mr. Wu followed proper protocol to contact Huawei and coordinated the vulnerability disclosure so they can keep their customers as safe as possible. | DiscoverVulnerability
We’re told this vulnerability impacts the Huawei Honor 7 that is running software versions newer than PLK-UL00C17B385. | DiscoverVulnerability
Meaning, if you have the Honor 7 from Huawei and have the PLK-UL00C17B385 firmware (or newer), then your device is safe from this attack. | O
This attack is also possible on the Huawei Mate S, but it was fixed in software version CRR-L09C432B380. | PatchVulnerability
So again, if you have the Mate S from Huawei and are running the CRR-L09C432B380 firmware (or newer), then you’re safe as well. | O
This was not a remote attack and you were only at risk when certain conditions were met. | O
You would have had to have someone trick you into installing a malicious theme on your device for it to infect it. | O
This was possible because of a lack of a “theme pack check” since it allowed the theme to include some malicious files which would have been executed once installed. | O

