6 dangerous toys that are not child's play | CSO Online
 
 

The most recent breach of smart teddy bears -- which can receive and send voice messages from children and parents -- have been involved in a data breach dealing with more than 800,000 user accounts. | AttackDatabreach
The company behind the products, Spiral Toys, is denying that any customers were hacked. | O
Zach Lanier, director of research at Cylance, went through the more famous incidents involving toys and breaches and offers a tip with each case. | O
This may have given attackers access to voice recordings from the toy's customers, by allegedly making the mistake of storing the customer information in a publicly exposed online MongoDB database that required no authentication process. | AttackDatabreach
Thus anyone, including the attackers, was able to view and steal the data. | AttackDatabreach
CloudPets placed no requirement on password strength, making it much easier to decipher passwords. | O
Tip: Always create a secure password, no matter the strength requirement. | O
Include lowercase and uppercase letter, symbols and numbers. | O
Use a password manager to help create and store unique passwords for sites and services. | O
A line of stuffed animals, these connected toys combine with a mobile application that was vulnerable due to a number of weak APIs, which didn’t verify who sent messages. | DiscoverVulnerability
This meant that an attacker could guess usernames, or email addresses, and ask Fisher-Price for server return details about associated accounts and children’s profiles, which provides their name, birthdate, gender, language and toys they have played with. | O
Tip: If the IoT device connects to a mobile app or desktop computer, it is important to examine how it connects. | O
If the start of the URL address is http rather than https, which is the secure version of HTTP, then your device is making a less secure connection. | O
The doll has a microphone and accesses the internet to answer your child's questions. | O
Moreover, criminals could have the ability collect your personal information. | AttackDatabreach
Tip: If the toy does require Wi-Fi, make sure it supports modern, more secure Wi-Fi capabilities like WAP2. | O
Their speech-recognition software maker Nuance Communications violated federal rules by listening to children and saving the recordings. | O
It’s valuable to know how they are using your data. | O
Don’t provide personal information that seems extra or unnecessary. | O
VTech had its app store database, Learning Lodge, hacked. | O
As a result of the breach, over 11.6 million accounts were compromised in a cyberattack, exposing photos of children and parents as well as chat logs. | AttackDatabreach
The profile data leaked included their names, genders and birth dates. | O
Tip: Check to see if the manufacturer has had any cybersecurity issues in the past, and if so, how they responded. | O
Alternatively, if the company is relatively new, your device is definitely at greater risk. | O
The interactive toy has the ability to communicate and record conversations. | O
Those conversations are sent to the company’s servers, analyzed and then stored in the cloud. | O
The toy was criticized for spying on kids by recording their conversations. | O
Through Wi-Fi, attackers can hijack the connection to spy on your children, steal personal information, and turn the microphone of the doll into a surveillance device. | AttackDatabreach
Tip: Since the device is Wi-Fi enabled, confirm if the device supports modern security protocols. | O
If the device only uses WEP or WPA (but not WPA2) security standards, it may be too risky to use. | O
Those versions are older and over time have become almost entirely insecure from attack. | O

