Cisco and Apache issue warnings over Zero-Day flaw being targeted in the wild | CSO Online | O
   Cisco's Talos says they've observed active attacks against a Zero-Day vulnerability in Apache's Struts, a popular Java application framework. | DiscoverVulnerability 
Cisco started investigating the vulnerability shortly after it was disclosed, and found a number of active attacks. | DiscoverVulnerability 
In an advisory issued on Monday, Apache says the problem with Struts exists within the Jakarta Multipart parser. | DiscoverVulnerability 
"It is possible to perform a RCE attack with a malicious Content-Type value. | O
If the Content-Type value isn't valid an exception is thrown which is then used to display an error message to a user," the warning explained. | O
"If you are using Jakarta based file upload Multipart parser, upgrade to Apache Struts version 2.3.32 or 2.5.10.1. | PatchVulnerability 
You can also switch to a different implementation of the Multipart parser." | O
The alternative is the Pell parser plugin, which uses Jason Pell's multipart parser instead of the Common-FileUpload library, Apache explains. | O
In addition, administrators concerned about the issue could just apply the proper updates, which are currently available. | O
In a blog post, Cisco said they discovered a number of attacks that seem to be leveraging a publicly released proof-of-concept to run various commands. | PatchVulnerability 
Such commands include simple ones ('whoami') as well as more sophisticated ones, including pulling down malicious ELF executable and running it. | O
An example of one attack, which attempts to copy the file to a harmless directory, ensure the executable runs, and that the firewall is disabled is boot-up, is below: | O
Both Cisco and Apache urge administrators to take action, either by patching or ensuring their systems are not vulnerable. | PatchVulnerability 
This isn't the first time the Struts platform has come under attack. | O
In 2013, Chinese hackers were using an automated tool to exploit known vulnerabilities in order to install a backdoor. | O
 
